.\" Copyright (C) 2011-2012 G.P. Halkes
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3, as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH "Tilde" "1" "<DATE>" "Version <VERSION>" "An intuitive terminal text editor"
.hw /usr/share/doc/tilde-<VERSION> http://os.ghalkes.nl/tilde.html

.SH NAME

\fBTilde\fP \- an intuitive text editor for the console/terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBtilde\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] [<\fIFILE...\fP>]
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBTilde\fP is a text editor for the console/terminal, which tries to be as
intuitive as possible for users who are accustomed to GUI environments such as
Gnome, KDE and Windows. For example, the short-cut to copy the current
selection is Control-C, and to paste the previously copied text the short-cut
Control-V can be used. As another example, the File menu can be accessed by
pressing Meta-F.

.SH OPTIONS
\fBTilde\fP accepts the following options:
.IP "\fB\-b\fP, \fB\-\-black\-white\fP"
Force \fBTilde\fP to use black & white mode. Only attributes such as reverse
video, underline and bold text will be used to create the interface. This option
overrides the setting from the configuration file.
.IP "\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-color\fP"
Request \fBTilde\fP to use color mode. This option overrides the setting from
the configuration file. If the terminal does not support color, or does not
provide sufficient colors, this option will be ignored.
.IP "\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP"
Display a short help message.
.IP "\fB\-I\fP, \fB\-\-select\-input\-method\fP"
Ask the user to select the input handling method immediately after start-up, as
if the user had not previously selected one for the current terminal type.
.IP "\fB\-T\fP <\fBterminal\fP>, \fB\-\-terminal\fP=<\fBterminal\fP>"
Set the terminal type to \fBterminal\fP, overriding the TERM environment
variable.
.IP "\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP"
Print version and copyright information.
.PP
To stop \fBTilde\fP from interpreting file names that start with a dash as
options, one can specify a double dash (\-\-) after which \fBTilde\fP will
interpret any following arguments as files to read.
.SH BUGS

If you think you have found a bug, please check that you are using the latest
version of \fBTilde\fP [http://os.ghalkes.nl/tilde.html]. When reporting
bugs, please include a minimal example that demonstrates the problem.
.SH AUTHOR

G.P. Halkes <tilde@ghalkes.nl>
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright \(co 2011-2012 G.P. Halkes
.br
Tilde is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3.
.br
For more details on the license, see the file COPYING in the documentation
directory. On Un*x systems this is usually /usr/share/doc/tilde.
